Feature/lesson 2.8 (#5)
smiakchilo/aem-crash-course: lessons/2.8/part1.md

The following default variables are available within the scope of the list:
- item: The current item in the iteration.
- itemList: Object holding the following properties:
- index: zero-based counter ( 0..length-1).
- count: one-based counter ( 1..length).
- first: true if the current item is the first item.
- middle: true if the current item is neither the first nor the last item.
- last: true if the current item is the last item.
- odd: true if index is odd.
- even: true if index is even.
Defining an identifier on the data-sly-list statement allows you to rename the itemList and item variables. item will become variable and itemList will become variable List.
```html
<ul data-sly-list.child="${currentPage.listChildren}">
    <li>${child.title}</li>
</ul>
```
You can use data-sly-list to iterate not only collections, but also Maps (and JS objects that are essentially maps as well). When iterating over Map objects, the item variable contains the key of each map item:
```html
<dl data-sly-list="${myMap}">
    <dt>key: ${item}</dt>
    <dd>value: ${myMap[item]}</dd>
</dl>
```

### Repeat

> With data-sly-repeat you can repeat an element multiple times based on the list that is specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With **data-sly-repeat** you can repeat an element multiple times based on the list that is specified.
```

This works the same way as data-sly-list, except that you do not need a container element.
```html
<p data-sly-repeat="${resource.listChildren}">${item.text}</p>
```

> ### Attribute

Reviewer: we should also mention that data-sly-attribute can output a map as a bunch of attributes. this is a more common usecase for this directive

However, this statement should be used sparingly. In general, it is better to keep the HTL markup as close as possible to the intended output markup. In other words, when adding HTL block statements, try as much as possible to simply annotate the existing HTML, without introducing new elements.  One use case is when to use data-sly-unwrap it with conditional statements. For e.g., if a parent element needs to present only in certain scenarios, then using it in the following w,ay is much cleaner than writing multiple data-sly-test conditions.

### Text

**data-sly-text** replaces the content of its host element with the specified text.
```html
<p>${properties.jcr:description}</p>
```
Is equivalent to
```html
<p data-sly-text="${properties.jcr:description}">Lorem ipsum</p>
```
Both will display the value of jcr:description as paragraph text. The advantage of the second method is that it allows the unobtrusive annotation of HTML while keeping the static placeholder content from the original designer.

### Element

**data-sly-element** replaces the element name of the host element.
```html
<div data-sly-element="${'h1'}">Blah</div>
<!--/* outputs: */-->
<h1>Blah</h1>
```

### Include

> **data-sly-include** replaces the content of the host element with the markup generated by the indicated HTML template file (HTL, JSP, ESP etc.) when it is processed by its corresponding template engine. The rendering context of the included file will not include the current HTL context (that of the including file).

Reviewer: we haven't mentioned ESP files anywhere else, and to be honest, I have never seen an ESP file in AEM. Perhaps we can remove it?

Reviewer: "The rendering context of the included file will not include the current HTL context (that of the including file)." needs rephasing

```html
<div data-sly-include="template.html"></div>
<div data-sly-include="template.jsp"></div>
```
The following options can be added to the expression:
- appendPath - appends its content to the passed path;
```html
<div data-sly-include="${'partials' @ appendPath='template.html'}"></div>
<!--/* will include partials/template.html */-->
```
- prependPath - prepends its content to the passed path.
```html
<div data-sly-include="${'template.html' @ prependPath='partials'}"></div>
<!--/* will include partials/template.html */-->
```

## 2.8.5 Format

This option can be used to format dates and numbers, and also interpolate strings with inserted values (much like Java's String.format() method does). A formatting pattern string must be supplied in the expression and the format option will contain the value(s) to be used. Type of formatting will be decided based on:
1. the type option, if present (accepted values are string, date and number)
2. placeholders (eg: {0}) in the pattern, triggers string formatting
3. type of format option object, when the type is a Date or a Number

> 4. default, fallback to string formatting

Reviewer: I would remove everything after the first paragraph, this information is too specific and repeats the official documentation word-for-word

### Strings

```html
<div>${'Asset {0}' @ format=properties.assetName}</div>
<!--/* Asset Night Sky */-->

<div>${'Asset {0} out of {1}' @ format=[properties.current, properties.total]}</div>
<!--/* Asset 3 out of 5 */-->
```

### Dates

Examples for date 1918-12-01 00:00:00Z
```html
<div>${'yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSSXXX' @ format=obj.date, timezone='UTC'}</div>
<!--/* 1918-12-01 00:00:00.000Z */-->

<div>${'dd MMMM \'\'yy hh:mm a; \'day in year\': D; \'week in year\': w' @ format=obj.date, timezone='UTC'}</div>
<!--/* 01 December '18 12:00 AM; day in year: 335; week in year: 49 */-->
```

### Numbers

The following characters are supported in pattern:
- 0 - digit, shows as 0 if absent
- \# - digit, does not show if absent
- . - decimal separator
- - minus sign
- , - grouping separator
- E - separator between mantissa and exponent
- ; - sub-pattern boundary
- % - multiply by 100 and show as percentage 

> Characters can be escaped in prefix or suffix using single quotes. Single quotes are escaped as two in a row.

Reviewer: I would leave only examples here, the rest of the information is too specific

Examples for number -3.14:
```html
<div>${'#.###;-#.###' @ format=obj.number}</div>
<!--/* -3.14 */-->

<div>${'#.000E00' @ format=obj.number}</div>
<!--/* -.314E01 */-->
```

> ## 2.8.6 Rendering nested resource

Reviewer: (cosmetic)
```suggestion
## 2.8.6 Rendering nested resources
```

> **data-sly-resource** includes the result of rendering the indicated resource. Includes a rendered resource from the same server, using an absolute or relative path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**data-sly-resource** includes the result of rendering the indicated resource (form an absolute or a relative path).
```

A simple resource include:
```html
<article data-sly-resource="path/to/resource"></article>
```

> **data-sly-resource** creates a new internal request via the sling engine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**data-sly-resource** creates a new internal request via the sling engine.
```

```
- addSelectors - adds the selectors from the passed selector string or selector array to the original request before including the passed path;
```html
<section data-sly-resource="${'my/path' @ addSelectors='selector1.selector2'}"></section>
<section data-sly-resource="${'my/path' @ addSelectors=['selector1', 'selector2']}"></section>
```
- removeSelectors - removes the selectors found in the passed selector string or selector array from the original request before including the passed path; when the option doesn't have a value, all the selectors will be removed from the original request;
```html
<section data-sly-resource="${'my/path' @ removeSelectors='selector1.selector2'}"></section>
<section data-sly-resource="${'my/path' @ removeSelectors=['selector1', 'selector2']}"></section>
<section data-sly-resource="${'my/path' @ removeSelectors}"></section>
```
- resourceType - forces the rendering of the passed path with a script mapped to the overridden resource type;
```html
<section data-sly-resource="${'./path' @ resourceType='my/resource/type'}"></section>
```

## 2.8.7 Reusing markup fragments

> In Sightly, Templates tend to define reusable and potentially recursive methods that can be defined locally or in separate files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In HTL, templates define reusable blocks of markup.
```

Template blocks can be used like function calls: in their declaration, they can get parameters, which can then be passed when calling them.

> **data-sly-template** defines a template. The host element and its content are not output by HTL.

Reviewer: (cosmetic)
```suggestion

**data-sly-template** defines a template. The host element and its content are not be rendered by HTL.
```

The identifier set by the data-sly-template block element is global and available no matter if it's accessed before or after the template's definition. An identically named identifier created with the help of another block element can override the value of the identifier set by data-sly-template.

> **data-sly-call** calls a template defined with data-sly-template. The content of the called template (optionally parameterized) replaces the content of the host element of the call.

Reviewer: (cosmetic)
```suggestion

**data-sly-call** calls a template defined with data-sly-template. The content of the called template (optionally parameterized) replaces the content of the host element.
```

```html
<template data-sly-template.two="${@ title, resource='The resource of the parent node'}"> <!--/* The template element and its content are not output by HTL. */-->
<h1>${title}</h1>
<p>Parent: ${resource.name}</p>
</template>
<div data-sly-call="${two @ title=properties.jcr:title, resource=resource.parent}"></div>
```
When templates are located in a separate file, they can be loaded with data-sly-use:
```html
<div data-sly-use.lib="templateLib.html" data-sly-call="${lib.one}"></div>
<div data-sly-call="${lib.two @ title=properties.jcr:title, resource=resource.parent}"></div>
```
When some parameters are missing in a template call, that parameter would be initialised to an empty string within the template.

> ## 2.8.8 Manipulating with URI

Reviewer: these uri manipulations are rarely used. Perhaps we can delete this section? If anyone needs this info, they can always find it in the official docs

      }
    }
-->
<div>${'http://www.example.org/search' @ query=jsuse.query, context='uri'}</div>
<!--/* http://www.example.org/search?q=htl&array=1&array=2&array=3 */-->
```
- **addQuery** - adds or extends the query segment of a URI with the contents of its map value.
```html
<!--
    assuming that jsuse.query evaluates to:
    
    {
      "query": {
        "q" : "htl",
        "array" : [1, 2, 3]
      }
    }
-->
<div>${'http://www.example.org/search?s=1' @ addQuery=jsuse.query, context='uri'}</div>
<!--/* http://www.example.org/search?s=1&q=htl&array=1&array=2&array=3  */-->
```
- **removeQuery** - removes the identified parameters from an existing query segment of a URI; its value can be a string or a string array.
```html
<!--
    assuming that jsuse.query evaluates to:
    
    {
      "query": {
        "q" : "htl",
        "array" : [1, 2, 3]
      }
    }
-->
<div>${'http://www.example.org/search?s=1&q=htl' @ removeQuery='q', context='uri'}</div>
<!--/* http://www.example.org/search?s=1  */-->
```
- **fragment** - adds, modifies, or replaces the fragment segment of a URI.
```html
<div>${'path/page' @ fragment='fragment'}</div>
<!--/* path/page#fragment  */-->
```

> ## 2.8.9 Localising

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2.8.9 Localization
```

> Sightly localise terms provided in dictionaries in an easy and beautiful manner by just adding the context i18n. This option internationalises strings, using the current dictionary. If no translation is found, the original string is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use I18n dictionaries in HTL in an easy and beautiful manner by just adding the i18n option. This option translates strings using the current language's dictionary. If no translation is found, the original string is used.
```
